# EECE2160Midterm
### The Assignment
The purpose of the midterm project for Embedded Design was to combine several of the concepts learned throughout the semester’s lectures and labs. Specifically, the midterm project focuses on object-oriented programming in C++ and controlling a robotic arm through such programs interfaced with the ZedBoard. Using these concepts as tools, a program was created that instructed the robotic arm to pick up an empty bottle and throw it to knock down two other empty bottles standing across a table.

### The Solution
The structure of the program to control the robotic arm is as follows. A class named Joint was defined and was designed to control one of the five servo motors on the robotic arm. Each instance of this Joint class (Joint object) was assigned to a different thread so multiple motors could be actuated simultaneously, which was crucial for the throwing motion of the arm. To keep control of all five threads at once, a second class – called PoseManager – was created. Each PoseManger object, when constructed, created five Joint objects within it. Therefore, one action on the PoseManager object could carry out commands on each of the servos of the robotic arm simultaneously and manipulate them to create one “pose” of the robotic arm.
Because the throwing motion of the robotic arm required several “poses” (initial, picking up the bottle, windup, throw, etc), a text file was created which contained on each row the degrees each of the servos should assume and how long the robot should take to assume the pose. The main function of the program would then reach the lines and sequentially feed the degrees into the PoseManager to make the arm go through its motions. This type of functionality would not be so simple without using object-oriented programming, as it would be very difficult to control all threads occurring at once using only conventional data types. Creating a class to manipulate all threads at once is a huge advantage.
To achieve proper object-oriented design each of these classes, two header files, three source files, and a Makefile were necessary (along with the text file).
Below is a visual respresentation of the structure of the program:
